A so in this video we're going to be looking at the Year function and what the Year function does is
it extracts the year from a date or date time data type.
So you can see here we've selected the year from this date.
So 2018 I-65.
And if we were to run this query you can see just returns the year 2018.
And similarly if we were to add a time to make this a date time
and run this query again you can see still able to return just the year 2018.
Okay so now let's look at applying the Year function to our tables in our system our booking system.
So here I've selected that time from screenings again and you can see it returns the date time data
type.
So 2017 October 1 1 p.m. and so on and so on and if we copy and paste this query
and then add a year function to our start time column.
So year and then start time in brackets and run the query again.
You can see for every row of data just return the year 2017.
And that's because we only have data for October 2017.
So every row returns a year 2017.
But you can imagine if we had years and years of data then this is going to return just the year 2016
if we had data from 2016 2015 2014 et cetera et cetera.
And we can use this function to select all the data from certain years.
So if we if we write our query select
store from screenings and then we have a WHERE clause where the stop sign
column has the Year function applied to it.
So year and then in brackets start time and then if we said that equal to 2017 then it's going to return
all the rows of data which have dates from the first of January 2017 to the thirty first of December
2017.
So if we run this you can see it returns all rows of data because all our data is from October 2017.
So this is how we can return data from certain years in our database.
So that's it for this video when the Year function.
Just remember that the Year function extracts the year from a date or a date time data type.